---
title: "Galaxy Pipeline"
author: Armel
tags:
  - tutorial
  - Galaxy
  - Variant Calling
---

<!-- excerpt start -->
The Galaxy exercise makes use of raw targeted next-generation sequencing data from a clinical oncology specimen from the Clinical and Translational Genomics Laboratory (CaTG) at Washington University.
<!-- excerpt end -->



## Tutorial Sections

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Galaxy Exercise](#galaxy-exercise)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [Scenario](#scenario)
- [Software/websites needed](#softwarewebsites-needed)
- [Start Using Galaxy](#start-using-galaxy)
- [Understand the Data](#understand-the-data)
- [Work with the Data—Align Reads](#work-with-the-data-align-reads)
- [Working with the Data—Call Variants](#working-with-the-data-call-variants)
- [Working with the Data—Annotate Variants](#working-with-the-data-annotate-variants)
- [Working with the Data—Viewing Variants](#working-with-the-data-viewing-variants)
- [Analyze and Interpret Your Clinical Case](#analyze-and-interpret-your-clinical-case)
- [Assessment](#assessment)

## Overview

You will use Galaxy to analyze sample data.

## Galaxy Exercise

Details on how to conduct the Galaxy exercise.

## Credits

The Galaxy exercise at WUSM was initially developed by Marcy Vana and adapted by Bijal Parikh.

## Scenario

Description of the patient case for analysis.

## Software/websites needed

A list of required software and web tools.

## Start Using Galaxy

Instructions for setting up a Galaxy account and loading data.

## Understand the Data

How to interpret and prepare data for analysis.

## Work with the Data—Align Reads

Steps to align sequencing reads.

## Working with the Data—Call Variants

Guidelines on variant calling.

## Working with the Data—Annotate Variants

Methods for annotating identified variants.

## Working with the Data—Viewing Variants

Using IGV and other tools for visualization.

## Analyze and Interpret Your Clinical Case

Guidance on applying the analysis to a real case.

## Assessment

Final project expectations and evaluation criteria.
